# SlackLogger

Welcome to your new gem! In this directory, you'll find the files you need to be able to package up your Ruby library into a gem. Put your Ruby code in the file `lib/slack_logger`. To experiment with that code, run `bin/console` for an interactive prompt.

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'slack_logger'
```

And then execute:

    $ bundle install

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install slack_logger

## Usage

Configure slack_logger with a file inside of your config/initializers directory.
It needs the following configuration variables:
- `env` should be set to a Rails environment, e.g., "production". You can use `Rails.env` if you are developing a Rails app. Depending on the `env` value, SlackLogger will add suffix to slack channel names as follows:
  - `production`: no suffix (post to the specified channel without name modification)
  - `developnent`: `-dev`
  - `staging`: `-stg`
  - any other environment (`test`, etc.) - dash followed by the full environment name, e.g., `-test` or `-mygreatenv`
- `channel` references the slack channel you would like your notices sent to.
- `token` is used with the slack ruby client to connect to your slack environment.
- `enabled` takes a block, which the gem uses to know what messages to send to your slack client.
- [optional] `logger` can be set to a `Logger` instance, e.g,, `Rails.logger` to send warnings generated by SlackLogger to a log.

Example:

```ruby
SlackLogger.configure do |c|
  c.env = Rails.env.to_s
  c.channel = '#slack-errors-channel'
  c.token = ENV['ENCRYPTED_SLACK_TOKEN']
  c.enabled = proc { |error| Rails.env.production? || error.type == 'Slackable Development Error' }
  # optional:
  c.logger = Rails.logger
end
```

Then to use it within a Rake task:

```ruby
task :complicated_task do |t|
  SlackLogger.report_failure(t) do
    # complicated stuff
  end
end
```

## Development

After checking out the repo, run `bin/setup` to install dependencies. Then, run `rake spec` to run the tests. You can also run `bin/console` for an interactive prompt that will allow you to experiment.

To install this gem onto your local machine, run `bundle exec rake install`. To release a new version, update the version number in `version.rb`, and then run `bundle exec rake release`, which will create a git tag for the version, push git commits and tags, and push the `.gem` file to [rubygems.org](https://rubygems.org).

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/[USERNAME]/slack_logger. This project is intended to be a safe, welcoming space for collaboration, and contributors are expected to adhere to the [code of conduct](https://github.com/[USERNAME]/slack_logger/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

## Code of Conduct

Everyone interacting in the SlackLogger project's codebases, issue trackers, chat rooms and mailing lists is expected to follow the [code of conduct](https://github.com/[USERNAME]/slack_logger/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
